# Multilevel Streaming Analytics
Repository for all files and codes related to the project: A Multilevel Streaming Data Analytics Infrastructure for Predictive Analytics http://cs.queensu.ca/~farhana/bam-lab/projects/

There has been a considerable interest in developing systems for processing continuous data streams with the increasing need for real-time analytics for decision support in business, healthcare, manufacturing, security, and internet of things. Some of the data processed through streaming data processing systems need further processing for which most systems currently store the data on the disk and re-load the data in memory for the next level of processing. Storing re-loading of large streaming data incurs compute and storage overhead. The goal of this project is to design and implement a multi-level architecture that can support high speed real time streaming data processing and complex machine learning analytics. 
## Architecture
Extracting meaningful and timely insights from unbounded data is very challenging. Currently there are many open-source and proprietary systems for data stream processing. The large number of available systems is good but poses a major challenge in terms of selecting the right components or processing framework for different use cases. Understanding the required capabilities of streaming architectures is vital in making the right design or usage choice. As first step in achieving the objectives of the this project, we conducted a systematic literature review, propose a taxonomy and architecture, perform a comparative study of distributed data stream processing/analytics frameworks, and conducted a critical review of representative open source (Storm, Spark Streaming, Structured Streaming, Flink, Kafka Streams, KSQL) and commercial (IBM Streams) distributed data stream and graph processing frameworks. This study identified open problems (research opportunities) and can serve as a guide for organizations and individuals planning to implement a real-time data stream processing and analytics framework. The outcome of our review has been published in the IEEE Access entitled "A Survey of Distributed Data Stream Processing Frameworks". URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8864052&isnumber=6514899
## Data Stream Ingestion
The multilevel streaming data ingesting and processing engines, and an integrated in-memory data storage and analytics framework. We are developing a real-time multilevel streaming data analytics infrastructure using cutting edge streaming data processing engines, in-memory data structure and analytics tools which will preprocess, filter and store necessary data in the memory for processing at the next level. 
## Data Stream Analytics
